ALGORITHMIC TRADING STRATEGIES WITH MACHINE LEARNING TECHNIQUES DURING THE COVID-19 MARKET CRASH

Algorithmic trading is a method of executing market orders using computer programs which make decisions based on variables such as price, volume and liquditity.
This strategy has been increasingly adopted by large institutions like investment banks or hedge funds in an attempt to give them an edge in the 
market, as it presents many advantages. These include accuracy, reduced cost and most notably speed, with algorithms being able to capitilise on market opportunities
in fractions of a time that it would take a human trader. Ultimately, this has made markets far more efficient.

These algorithms, although efficient at a given moment in time, need constant updating by programmers and quant strategists as markets change. This results in algorithms
becomming increasingly more complex and difficult to work with. To combat this, firms such as JP Morgan have began utilising machine 
learning to update their algorithms with no human intervention. Traditional algorithms struggle to react to external news which might effect the
market. Most recently, the COVID-19 pandemic sparked a global market crash. It is thought that ML algorithms will be able to adjust to the surge in volatility preciptated
by the events to negelct negative market movements on portfolios.

In this project we will analyse the historical effect of external events on markets. We will initially attempt to program a simple algorithm, such as a long-short equity
strategy, using an open source API like the one provided by Quantopian and financial data from the likes of morningstar. We will backtest the algorithm during previous 
market crashes and bear markets, such as the 2008 financial crisis and the COVID-19 crash, and attempt to outperform a certain benchmark such as the SPY. We will then go 
onto look at the benefits of machine learning in a strategy such as pairs trading. This strategy considers two hisorically correlated securties and bets on the 'spread'
between them converging if their correlation has recently temporarily weakened. We will use machine learning techniques to find suitable candidate pairs andinvestigate 
this strategy further.

Another interesting aspect, for potential consideration next semester, is numerical and computational finance. 
This idea will recieve further development nearer the time. 





